Internals of SMRTd and the protocol
===================================

The modem uses its own binary protocol over special ethernet frames.
The ethernet protocol used is 0x8889 and the modem's MAC address is
always 06:05:04:03:02:01. This is hardcoded in the chip. As a result,
it is not possible to have multiple modems connected to the same
ethernet segment.

The daemon watches the given interfaces for link up/down events. In
case it is brought up, a state automaton is created to keep the state
of the modem.

The first thing it does is sending a query for current power-management
settings of the modem. This is used to discover if the modem is
present. This query was experimentally discovered to be answered even
without firmware. The content of answer is ignored. In case no answer
comes after several retries, the daemon decides the modem is not
present and goes to sleep.

The daemon then sends an offer of firmware. If it has no firmware
loaded, it accepts the offer and the firmware is sent in multiple
frames (no flow control is needed, we always wait for ACK before
sending the next one). If firmware is present, it is refused.

After that, a version is checked. This works as a check for previous
version of firmware preloaded in the modem. It also checks the modem
got uploaded correctly. If the version matches, the daemon proceeds
further. If not, the modem is restarted and the process is started
from the beginning.

A config is uploaded in the next stage and the modem link is enabled.

The state of the link is checked periodically. If it is not connected
for a too long time, the modem is reset and the process starts again,
to recover from both strange phenomena of the Chinese chip and from
whatever the provider might be doing.

Technologies used inside
------------------------

There are few technologies of note used inside the daemon. They
include:

epoll::
  This is used to watch over multiple file descriptors and timeouts.
netlink::
  This is the way how kernel tells the daemon an interface went up or
  down.
packet sockets::
  A packet socket is opened on each interface that is up and is
  watched for modems. It allows sending and receiving the packets on
  with protocol 0x8889.

If you want to know the constants of the protocol and its message
layout, look into the source code.
